# Fabrico Manifest for Enterprise Applications Development

This manifest intends to outline a methodology for enterprise applications development based on enhanced Proof of Concepts and code generation.

## Steps

1. Start with a PoC
2. Extract architecture from the PoC
3. Application development is bootstrapped with the PoC
4. Evolve the architecture as needs change

### 1. Start with a PoC

When developing a PoC:

- Write industry grade code from the start
- The architecture should be as close as possible to the final architecture
- The implementation should not cover use cases in detail (e.g. authentication logic can be omitted)
- The architect has to be able to mandate architectural patterns and code guidelines using an evolutive approach

When the PoC is complete:

- Do not toss it away! All that work can be used as the foundation of the final application

### 2. Extract architecture from the PoC

Now that there is a stable PoC, its architecture can be extracted.

In this phase, the software architect must produce a Domain Specific Schema (DSS) and a collection of templates. These artifacts are the foundation of the code generation process, which is specific to the application.

### 3. Application development is bootstrapped with the PoC

At this point, a code generation process is ready to be used by developers.
The work of the developer must start with the implementation of a Domain Specific Model (DSM) adhering to the previously defined DSS.
Applicative layers and boilerplate code are generated by the means of a Code Generator, which receives as input a DSM and various templates.

So the application source code should evolve starting from the PoC, with the help of the code generator: enforcing patterns and best practices in the source code will be easier.

### 4. Evolve the architecture as needs change

It is fundamental that the DSS can be changed in the middle of the development process without too much effort. This allows for the flexibility that is usually needed when developing software in a domain that presents changing requirements.
